Make Control flow effects of await section more technically precise (#38162)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/operators/await/index.md

### Control flow effects of await

> When an `await` is encountered in code (either in an async function or in a module), the awaited expression is executed, while all code that depends on the expression's value is paused. The main thread is then freed for the next task in the [microtask queue](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Event_loop). When the awaited expression's value is resolved, another microtask that continues the paused code gets scheduled. This happens even if the awaited value is an already-resolved promise or not a promise: execution doesn't return to the current function until all other already-scheduled microtasks are processed. For example, consider the following code:

Reviewer: > The main thread is then freed for the next task in the microtask queue.

In the function case we don't immediately go to the next task in the microtask queue. Instead the function returns and execution resumes from that point (unless that function call was also awaited) within the current task. Explaining this may be necessary given the examples below use awaits inside functions.

// Second end
```

> In this case, the function `foo` is synchronous in effect, because it doesn't contain any `await` expression. The three statements happen in the same tick. Therefore, the two function calls executes all statements in sequence. In promise terms, the function corresponds to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the function `foo` is synchronous in effect, because it doesn't contain any `await` expression. The three statements happen in the same tick. Therefore, the two function calls execute all statements in sequence. In promise terms, the function corresponds to:
```

}
```

> Where there are only two microtasks, each defined by one `Promise()` executor.

Reviewer: I find this line might be confusing. Technically there are two executors involved here, one for each of the two instances of the foo call. The code in those executors are running synchronously (explained in the paragraph above), including the resolve() that resolves both of the promises. But, with no handlers given to either promise, no microtasks are needed to execute those handlers. Everything happens in the same (presumably macro) task.

}
```

> The extra `then()` handler can be merged with the executor passed to the constructor because it's not waiting on any asynchronous operation. However, its existence splits the code into two microtasks. These microtasks are scheduled and executed in an intertwined manner, which can both make your code slower and introduce unnecessary race conditions. Therefore, make sure to use `await` only when necessary (to unwrap promises into their values).

Reviewer: > However, its existence splits the code into two microtasks.

This one is a little tricky. The original example includes two calls to `foo` which in turn does result in two additional microtasks being created. But in this context I'm not sure its clear that we're talking about both of those calls. Rather it seems like we're concentrating on a single instance of the promise executor + then.  In that case the code is split between the original task and a single, additional microtask. The current wording could suggest instead that the code is getting split like so:

```
  return new Promise((resolve) => {
    // Microtask #1
    console.log(name, "start");
    resolve(console.log(name, "middle"));
  }).then(() => {
    // Microtask #2
    console.log(name, "end");
  });
```

And even though it was explained the executor was synchronous before, it could seem like the existence of the then may cause that to change for this splitting to be happening.

Maybe this could be helped with something like:

> However, its existence splits the code into two additional microtasks, one microtask for each call to `foo`.

Author: ```suggestion
The extra `then()` handler can be merged with the executor passed to the constructor because it's not waiting on any asynchronous operation. However, its existence splits the code into one additional microtask for each call to `foo`. These microtasks are scheduled and executed in an intertwined manner, which can both make your code slower and introduce unnecessary race conditions. Therefore, make sure to use `await` only when necessary (to unwrap promises into their values).
```

}
```

> While the extra `then()` handler is not necessary and can be merged with the executor passed to the constructor, its existence splits the code into two microtasks. These microtasks are scheduled and executed in an intertwined manner, which can both make your code slower and introduce unnecessary race conditions. Therefore, make sure to use `await` only when necessary (to unwrap promises into their values).

Reviewer: > While the extra `then()` handler is not necessary...

Given that we're comparing await with then, it might not make sense to mention that the then is not necessary when it is necessary for the comparison. If we were to merge the then callback code with the executor, you'd no longer have the same behavior as the await which is what this code is trying to show.

I'm assuming this was originally included because it enforces the "make sure to use `await` only when necessary" comment at the end there, but I think it distracts from the point of "here's what await looks like through the Promise API" which I think is more important.
